Release 91.0.0 (#2044)
MetaMask/core: packages/transaction-controller/CHANGELOG.md

and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]

## [17.0.0]
### Added

> - **BREAKING:** Add swaps logic into `TransactionController` ([#1877](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1877))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **BREAKING:** Add additional support swaps support ([#1877](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1877))
```

  - Swap transaction updates can be prevented by setting `disableSwaps` as `true`. If not set it will default to `false`.

>   - This value MUST be set to true in mobile, since mobile doesn't use any swap logic.

Reviewer: I think we should omit this to avoid coupling the changelog to specific clients.

Author: ```suggestion
```

  - If `disableSwaps` is `false` or not set, then the `createSwapsTransaction` callback MUST be defined.

> - Add hooks to support mmi logic ([#1787](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1787))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add optional hooks to support alternate flows ([#1787](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1787))
```

>   - Add the option in the construction `hooks` giving the possibility to pass callback functions additional logic to execute.

Reviewer: Can we remove this is as it duplicates the above a little?

Author: ```suggestion
```

  - Add the optional callback in hooks `getAdditionalSignArguments` returns additional arguments required to sign a transaction.

>   - Add the optional callback in hooks `beforeApproveOnInit` additional logic to execute before starting an approval flow for a transaction during initialization. Return false to skip the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add the `beforeApproveOnInit` hook to execute additional logic before starting an approval flow for a transaction during initialization. Return `false` to skip the transaction.
```

>   - Add the optional callback in hooks `afterSign` additional logic to execute after signing a transaction. Return false to not change the status to signed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add the `afterSign` hook to execute additional logic after signing a transaction. Return `false` to not change the `status` to `signed`.
```

>   - Add the optional callback in hooks `beforePublish` additional logic to execute before publishing a transaction. Return false to prevent the broadcast of the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add the `beforePublish` hook to execute additional logic before publishing a transaction. Return `false` to prevent the transaction being submitted.
```

> - Add `onBootCleanup` functionality to constructor and `onNetworkChange` ([#1916](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1916))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add additional persisted transaction support during initialization and on network change ([#1916](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1916))
```

>   - Initialises approvals of `TransactionStatus.unapproved` transactions on active network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Initialise approvals for unapproved transactions on the current network.
```

>   - Refreshes the gas values for `TransactionStatus.unapproved` transactions on active network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add missing gas values for unapproved transactions on the current network.
```

>   - Submits the `TransactionStatus.approved` transactions on active network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Submit any approved transactions on the current network.
```

- Support advanced gas fees in `TransactionController` ([#1966](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1966))

>   - `getSavedGasFees` callback added as an optional parameter in constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add optional `getSavedGasFees` callback to constructor.
```

>   - Setting `getSavedGasFees` callback will make saved gas fees (`advancedGasFees` in the `PreferencesController` state) be taken into account when updating gas fees.

Reviewer: We can omit this line as it's client specific.

> - Add updateCustodialTransaction to update the custodial transactions associated with a specific transaction ID. ([#2018](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2018))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `updateCustodialTransaction` method to update custodial transactions ([#2018](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2018))
```

- Add `accessList` to txParam types ([#2016](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2016))

> - Adds `estimateGasBuffered` public method ([#2021](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2021))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `estimateGasBuffered` method to estimate gas and apply a specific buffer multiplier ([#2021](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/2021))
```

> - Add method for adding params to transaction meta ([#1985](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1985))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `updateSecurityAlertResponse` method ([#1985](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1985))
```

> - Add gas values validation to transaction params ([#1978](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1978))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add gas values validation ([#1978](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1978))
```

> - Add `approveTransactionsWithSameNonce` public method to core transaction controller ([#1961](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1961))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `approveTransactionsWithSameNonce` method ([#1961](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1961))
```

> - Add `clearUnapprovedTxs` public method to `TransactionController` ([#1979](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1979))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `clearUnapprovedTransactions method ([#1979](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1979))
```

> - Add `updatePreviousGasParams` public method to `TransactionController` ([#1943](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1943))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `updatePreviousGasParams` method ([#1943](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1943))
```

> - Add `TransactionEvents` to be emitted from `TransactionController` ([#1894](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1894))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Emit additional events to support metrics in the clients ([#1894](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1894))
```

- Populate the `firstRetryBlockNumber`, `retryCount`, and `warning` properties in the transaction metadata. ([#1896](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1896))

### Changed
- **BREAKING:** Pending transactions are now automatically resubmitted. ([#1896](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1896))
  - This can be disabled by setting the new `pendingTransactions.isResubmitEnabled` constructor option to `false`.
- **BREAKING:** Bump dependency and peer dependency on `@metamask/network-controller` to ^16.0.0
- Persist specific error properties in core transaction metadata ([#1915](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1915))
  - create `TxError` type with specific properties to support both clients.

>   - Updated `failTransaction` to use the new type.

Reviewer: This can be omitted as it's implementation specific.

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Align core transaction error messages with extension ([#1980](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1980))

>   - `processApproval` when the user rejects the request: MetaMask Tx Signature: User denied transaction signature.`

Reviewer: I'd vote to remove the nested list of individual message updates as it feels excessive.

>   - `processApproval` when the user rejects the request: MetaMask Tx Signature: User denied transaction signature.`
>   - `validateParamRecipient` to use `@metamask/rpc-errors`: `Invalid "to" address.`
>   - `validateParamFrom` to use `@metamask/rpc-errors`: `Invalid "from" address.`
>   - `validateIfTransactionUnapproved`: ``TransactionsController: Can only call ${fnName} on an unapproved transaction.`

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - Change `initApprovals` method based on the extension ([#1867](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1867))

Reviewer: This line can be omitted since this method was removed by a later PR.

Author: ```suggestion
```

  - Catch of the `initApprovals` method to skip logging when the error is `userRejectedRequest`.

> - `stopTransaction` now creates a cancel transaction with same nonce instead of changing type to cancel ([#1998](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1998))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create an additional transaction metadata entry when calling `stopTransaction` ([#1998](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1998))
```
